CHAPTER XVII.
Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, than a house full of sacrifices with strife.
A wise servant shall have rule over a son that causeth shame, and shall have part of
the inheritance among the brethren.
The finding pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold, but the Lord trieth the hearts.
A wicked doer giveth heed to false lips, and a liar giveth ear to a naughty tongue.
Whoso mocketh the poor reproacheth his Maker, and he that is glad at calamities shall not be unpunished.
Children's children are the crown of old men, and the glory of children are their fathers.
Excellent speech becomeeth not a fool, much less do lying lips a prince.
A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it, whithersoever it turneth,
it prospereth. He that covereth a transgression seeketh love, but he that repeateth a matter
separeth very friends. A reprooth entereth more into a wise man than a hundred stripes into a fool.
An evil man seeketh only rebellion, therefore a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.
Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man rather than a fool in his folly.
Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.
The beginning of strife is as when one leadeth out water, therefore leave off contention before it be
meddled with. He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the just, even they both are
abomination to the Lord. Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom,
seeing he hath no heart to it? A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.
A man void of understanding striketh hands, and becomeeth surety in the presence of his friend.
He loveth transgression that loveth strife, and he that exalteth his gait seeketh destruction.
He that hath a foward heart findeth no good, and he that hath a perverse tongue falleth into mischief.
He that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow, and the father of a fool hath no joy.
A merry heart doeth good like a medicine, but a broken spirit dryeth the bones.
A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosom to pervert the ways of judgment.
Wisdom is before him that hath understanding, but the eyes of a fool are in the ends of the earth.
A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her that bear him. Also to punish
the just is not good, nor to strike princes for equity. He that hath knowledge spareth his words,
and a man of understanding is of an excellent spirit. Even a fool when he holdeth his peace
is counted wise, and he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding.